# Lab: Updating Windows 10  #

## Exercise 1: Configuring Updates for a Single Device ##

### Task 1: Configure update settings for a single device ###

 Switch to **LON-CL1**.

2.  Login with the username ADATUM\\Administrator, Password: Pa55w.rd

3.  Right-click **Start**, and then select **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

4.  In the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type the following command,
    and then press Enter:

 `  Set-Service wuauserv -Startuptype Manual`

>   *Note: For the lab setup, the Windows Update service is disabled. The above
>   command is not necessary to run in typical Windows 10 scenarios.*

5.  Click **Start**, and then click the **Settings** icon.

6.  In **Settings**, click **Update & security**.

7.  On the **Windows Update** tab, click **Advanced options**.

8.  On the Advanced options page, in the **Semi-Annual Channel (Targeted)**
    drop-down list, select **Semi-Annual Channel**.

9.  Click **Delivery Optimization**.

10.  On the Delivery Optimization page, enable the **Allow downloads from other
    PCs** option.

11.  Select **PCs on my local network, and PCs on the Internet**, and then click
    **Back** twice.

12.  In the navigation pane, click **Windows Insider Program**. Notice that the
    **Get Started** option is available.

13.  In the navigation pane, click **Windows Update**.

### Task 2: Review applied updates

1.  On the **Windows Update** page, click **View installed update history**.

2.  Review the updates listed, and then click **Uninstall updates**.

3.  Review the updates listed in **Installed Updates**. Close **Installed
    Updates**.

4.  On the **Update history** page, click **Back**.

Results: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully configured Windows Update settings.

## Exercise 2: Configuring Updates with GPOs ##

### Task 1: Configure update settings by using GPOs ###

1.  In the **Ask me anything** box, type **gpedit.msc**, and then press Enter.

2.  In **Local Group Policy Editor**, navigate to **Computer
    Configuration/Administrative Templates /Windows Components/Data Collection
    and Preview Builds**.

3.  In the right pane, double-click **Toggle user control over Insider builds**.

4.  In the **Toggle user control over Insider builds** dialog box, click
    **Disabled**, and then click **OK**.

5.  In **Local Group Policy Editor**, navigate to **Computer
    Configuration/Administrative Templates /Windows Components/Windows
    Update/Windows Update for Business**.

6.  In the right pane, double-click **Select when Preview Builds and Feature
    Updates are received.**

7.  In the Select when Preview Builds and Feature Updates are received dialog
    box, click **Enabled**.

8.  In the **Select Windows Readiness level** for the updates you want to
    receive drop-down list, **select Semi-Annual Channel (Targeted)**, and then
    click OK.

9.  In the navigation pane, click **Windows Update**.

10. In the right pane, double-click **Do not connect to any Windows Update
    Internet locations**.

11. In the **Do not connect to any Windows Update Internet locations** dialog
    box, click **Enabled**, and then click **OK**.

12. Close **Local Group Policy Editor**.


### Task 2: Verify that the device’s update settings are managed centrally  ###

1.  Click **Start**, type **cmd**. Right-click on **Command Prompt** and click
    **Run as Administrator**.

2.  In the command prompt, type **gpupdate /force**, and then press Enter.

3.  Switch to **Settings**.

4.  In the navigation pane, click **Windows Insider Program**.

5.  On the **Windows Insider Program** tab, notice that the option to **Get
    started with Insider builds** is unavailable.

6.  Close all open apps and windows.

Results: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully
configured Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to configure Windows Update settings.
