# Lab: Installing Windows 10


## Exercise 1: Upgrading Windows 7 to Windows 10

### Task 1: Verify that the computer meets the minimum requirements


1.  Login to LON-CL3 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**

2.  If a Microsoft Windows dialog box opens, click **Restart Later**.

3.  If a Windows Activation dialog box opens, click **Ask me later**. Click
    **OK**.

4.  On the taskbar, click **Start**. Right-click **Computer**, and then click
    **Properties**.

5.  Write down the settings for:

- Processor: \____________________\_

- Installed memory (RAM):____________\_

6.  **Close** the System window.

7.  Right-click **the desktop**, and then click **Screen Resolution**.

8.  Write down the screen resolution:________________\_

9.  On the taskbar, click the **Windows Explorer** icon.

10.  Click **Computer**.

- Write down the available disk space for drive C: \_______________\_

- Do the noted values match the minimum requirements? \_______________\_

### Task 2: Perform an in-place upgrade from local media
1. Login to LON-CL3 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**

2.  If a Microsoft Windows dialog box opens, click **Restart Later**.

3.  If a Windows Activation dialog box opens, click **Ask me later**. Click
    **OK**.

4.  On the taskbar, click the **Windows Explorer** icon.

5.  In Windows Explorer, click the **DVD drive**.

6.  In the contents pane, double-click the **setup.exe** file.

7.  On the Get important updates page, click **Not right now**, and then click
    **Next**.

8.  On the License terms page, click **Accept**.

9.  On the Choose what to keep page, click **Nothing**. Click **Next**, and then
    click **Yes**.

10.  Click **Install**. The setup program will now upgrade your Windows 7
    installation to Windows 10. This will take approximately 30 minutes.

11. On the Hi there page, click **Next**.

12. On the Get going fast page, click **Use Express settings**.

13. On the Choose how you’ll connect, select **Join a local Active Directory
    domain**, then **Next**.

14. On the Create an account for this PC page, provide the following, and then
    click Next:

    -   Username: L**ocalAdmin**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

    -   Hint: **Standard password**

15. On the Meet Cortana page, click **Not now.**

16. After the setup finishes, you should be at the desktop of the new
    installation.

### Task 3: Verify that the upgrade was successful 

1.  Click **Start** and type **winver**. Press **Enter**.

2.  Make sure that the version number is 1607(OS Build 14393.0).

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you will have upgraded your Windows
>   7–based computer to Windows 10.

## Exercise 2: Migrating User Settings

### Task 1: Prepare the source computer 

1.  Start and then sign in to **LON-CL3** as the Local **Admin** with the
    password of **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Click **Start**, and type **Connect**. Select **Connect to work or school**.

3.  On the Connect to work or school page, click the **+Connect**.

4.  Select **Join this device to a local Active Directory domain**.

5.  On the Join a domain prompt, type **ADATUM** and click **Next**.

6.  Enter the credentials with Username: **adatum\\administrator**, Password:
    **Pa55w.rd**

7.  In the Add account dialog, change the Account type to **Administrator** and
    click **Next**.

8.  **Restart** the PC.

9.  Start and then sign in to LON-CL3 as **ADATUM\\administrator**, Password:
    **Pa55w.rd**

10. Right-click the **desktop**, hover over the **New** menu item, and then
    click **Text Document**. Type **Demofile** and press **Enter**.

11. Double-click **Demofile.txt** and type some random text. Press **Alt+F4**,
    and then click the **Save** button.

12. Right-click **Start** and select **Command Prompt (Admin)**.

13. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

 `   Net Use F: \\\\LON-DC1\\USMT`

14.  At the command prompt, type **F:**, and then press **Enter**.

15.  At the command prompt, type the following, and then press **Enter**:

 `   Scanstate \\\\LON-DC1\\MigrationStore\\LON-CL3\\ /i:migapp.xml /i:miguser.xml /o`

- *Note: This will take several minutes to complete.*

### Task 2: Complete the migration 

1.  **Switch to the LON-CL2** on Host computer Virtual Machine Connection
    window.

2.  Sign in to LON-CL2 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password
    **Pa55w.rd**

- *Notice that there is no Demofile.txt on the desktop and no Internet Explorer or Windows Media Player icon in the taskbar.*

4.  Click **Start**, type **cmd**, and then press **Enter**.

5.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

 `   Net Use F: \\\\LON-DC1\\USMT`

6.  At the command prompt, type **F:**, and then press **Enter**.

7.  At the command prompt, type the following, and then press **Enter**:

 `   Loadstate \\\\LON-DC1\\MigrationStore\\Lon-CL3\\ /i:migapp.xml /i:miguser.xml /lac:Pa55w.rd /lae`

- *Note: This will take several minutes to complete.*

8.  Type **exit** to close the command prompt.

- *Notice that the demofile.txt is now on the desktop and the Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player icons are visible on the taskbar.*

Results: After completing this exercise, you will have migrated your settings
from your Windows 7–based computer to a new Windows 10–based computer.
