# Lab: Managing Storage  #

## Exercise 1: Adding a Disk  ##

### Task 1: Use Disk Management to initialize a disk ###

1.  On **LON-CL2,** login as **Adatum\\Administrator with** the password
    **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Click Start and type **diskmgmt.msc.** Click diskmgmt.msc in the list.

3.  In the Initialize Disk window, **clear the Disk 2 and Disk 3** check boxes,
    and then click **OK**. You can see that Disk 1 now has a status of Online.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you will have initialized one hard
>   disk.

## Exercise 2: Creating a Simple Volume  ##

### Task 1: Create a simple volume ##

1.  Right-click the right side of Disk 1, and then click **New Simple Volume**.

2.  In the New Simple Volume Wizard window, click **Next**.

3.  On the Specify Volume Size page, **type 5120**, and then click **Next**.

4.  On the Assign Drive Letter or Path page, make sure that **drive E** is
    selected, and then click **Next**.

5.  On the Format partition page, in the Volume Label text box, **type Data**,
    and then click **Next**.

6.  On the Completing the New Simple Volume Wizard page, click **Finish**. If
    you receive the error message Location is not available, then click OK.

    *Note: If prompted whether to format drive E:, click Cancel.*

7.  **Close File Explorer** window.

### Task 2: Extend the simple volume ###

1.  Click Start, and then **type PowerShell**, then select **PowerShell** in the
    list.

2.  In Windows PowerShell, **type the following two commands**:

```
$MaxSize = (Get-PartitionSupportedSize -DriveLetter e).sizeMax

Resize-Partition -DriveLetter e -Size \$MaxSize
```
    
3.  **Switch to the Disk Management window**, and then verify that the E volume
    now occupies the entire Disk 1.  
      
    *Note: If the change is not visible, press F5 to refresh the view in Disk Management.*

4.  **Close** all Windows.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you will have created a simple
>   volume and then extended the volume.

## Exercise 3: Compressing a Folder  ##

### Task 1: Verify current folder size ###

1.  Click the File Explorer icon on the taskbar.

2.  Navigate to the **C:\\Users folder**. Right-click the **Admin folder**, and
    then click **Properties**.

3.  On the General tab, note the Size on Disk in megabytes (MB):__________\_

### Task 2: Configure compression on the folder ###

1.  On the General tab, click **Advanced**.

2.  Click **Compress contents to save disk space**, and then click **OK**.

3.  Click **Apply**, and then in the Confirm Attribute Changes window, click
    **OK**.  
      
    *Note: If the Access Denied window appears, click Continue. If the Error Applying
    Attributes window appears, click Ignore All.*

### Task 3: Verify the storage consumed by the compressed folder ###

1.  After the compression finishes, on the General tab, note the Size on Disk
    in MB: \______________, and then click **OK**.
    
2.  Notice that the Admin folder is now represented as a compressed folder icon.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you will have compressed a folder
>   with files.
