# Lab: Configuring Windows 10  #

## Exercise 1: Using the Settings App  ##

### Task 1: Use the Settings app to configure a device ###

1.  On **LON-CL1** login as **ADATUM\\Administrator** with password:
    **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Click the **Start** menu, then Settings.

3.  Maximize the Settings page, and click the **Update & Security** item.

4.  In the console tree, click the **Windows Defender** item, and then in the
    details pane, click **Open Windows Defender Security Center**.

5.  In the Windows Defender Security Center app, click the **Expand icon (triple
    bar),** and then click **Virus & threat protection**.

6.  On the Virus & threat protection page, click **Virus and threat protection
    settings**.

7.  On the Virus & threat protection settings page, under Exclusions, click
    **Add or remove exclusions**.

8.  On the Exclusions page, click the **plus sign (+)**, and then in the list,
    click **Folder**.

9.  In the Select Folder window, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles,** and then click
    **Select folder**.

10. Close the Windows Defender Security Center.

11. At the upper left of the screen, click the back arrow. This will return you
    to the main Settings page.

12. On the **Settings page**, click the **Devices** item.

13. Click the **Add a printer or scanner** plus sign.

- *Note: The Settings app scans for printers or scanners, but finds none.*

14.  Scroll down and select the **Devices and printers** hyperlink.  
      
- *Note that in the Control Panel, Devices and Printers appears. Note that some Settings-level configurations still use the Control Panel.*

15.  Click **Add a printer**.

16.  Click **The printer that I want isn’t listed**, select **Add a local printer
    or network printer with manual settings**, and then click **Next**.

17.  On the **Choose a printer port** page, click **Next**.

18.  On the **Install the printer driver page**, under the Manufacturer column,
    select **HP**, and in the Printers column, scroll down and choose **HP
    Photosmart 7520 series Class Driver**, and then click Next.

19.  On the **Printer Sharing** page, make sure sharing the printer is enabled,
    and set the Share name to **HP Photosmart 7520**. Click Next.

20.  On the You’ve successfully added HP Photosmart 7520 page, click **Finish**.

21.  Close the Control Panel, Devices and Printers.

22.  This will return to the **Printers & scanners page** of the Settings app.
    Click the **HP Photosmart 7520 icon**. Note the Remove device option that
    appears. Without selecting it, close the Settings app.

> Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully used the Settings app to configure a device.

## Exercise 2: Using Control Panel  ##

### Task 1: Use the Control Panel to configure a device ###

1.  On **LON-CL1**, click the **Start** , and type **control**. Click **Control
    Panel** in the menu.

2.  In the Control Panel, in the Hardware and Sound category, click the **View
    devices and printers** hyperlink.

3.  You should see the printer named **HP Photosmart 7520**. Double-click it.

4.  In the HP Photosmart 7520 window, click the **Printer menu**, and then
    select **Printing Preferences**.

5.  In the HP Photosmart 7520 Printing Preferences window, note that Print on
    Both Sides is not found. Click Cancel, and then close the HP Photosmart 7520
    window.

6.  Right-click HP Photosmart 7520, and then click **Printer Properties**. In
    the HP Photosmart 7520 Properties sheet, select the **Device Settings** tab.

7.  Note the installable options. To the right of Automatic Duplexing Unit:,
    click **Not installed**, change the drop-down selection to **Installed**,
    and then click **OK**.

8.  Double-click the **HP Photosmart 7520** item.

9.  In the HP Photosmart 7520 window, click the **Printer** menu, and then
    select **Printer Preferences**.

10. In the HP Photosmart 7520 Printing Preferences window, in the Print on both
    sides drop-down list, select **Flip on Long Edge**, and then click **OK**.

11. Close the HP Photosmart 7520 Control Panel window.

12. Close Devices and Printers.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully used
>   the Control Panel to configure a device.

## Exercise 3: Using Windows PowerShell  ##

### Task 1: Use Windows PowerShell to configure a device ###

1.  On the taskbar, in the Ask me anything text box, type **PowerShell**,
    right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then select **Run as
    administrator**.

2.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type **Get-ExecutionPolicy**, and
    then press Enter. Confirm that the current execution policy is Unrestricted.
    If the execution policy is Unrestricted, skip steps 3 and 4, and proceed to
    step 5.

3.  If set to Restricted, then in the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type
    **Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted**, and then press **Enter**.

4.  Select Yes to All [A] by typing an **A**, and then press **Enter**. Leave
    the Windows PowerShell command prompt open.

5.  Click the **Start** Menu icon, and then in the Start menu, select
    **Settings**.

6.  On the Settings page, click **Devices**.

7.  Ensure that Printers & Scanners is selected in the console tree, and then
    select the **HP Photosmart 7520 series Class Driver**. Click **Manage**.

8.  In the HP Photosmart 7520 series Class Driver window, click **Printing
    Preferences**.

9.  In the HP Photosmart 7520 Printing Preferences window, note that the Print
    on Both Sides drop-down box is available, and then click **Cancel**.

10. Return to the Windows PowerShell command prompt.

11. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following, and then press
    Enter:

 `  Get-PrinterProperty -PrinterName "HP Photosmart 7520"`

- *Note:* The property named Config:DuplexUnit is set to TRUE.

12.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following, and then press
    Enter:

 `  Set-PrinterProperty -PrinterName "HP Photosmart 7520" -PropertyName “Config:DuplexUnit” -Value FALSE`

- *Note:* You must use all caps for the TRUE or FALSE values.

>   Note: Note that in Windows PowerShell, each cmdlet parameter name is
>   preceded immediately by a dash symbol, such as the –Value parameter, which
>   you used above. However, the word wrap feature may separate the dash from
>   the parameter when you copy and paste from a file. Therefore, you need to
>   ensure that you inspect all pasted cmdlets and parameters to ensure they
>   follow Windows PowerShell syntax requirements.

13.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following, and then press
    Enter:

 `  Get-PrinterProperty -PrinterName "HP Photosmart 7520"`

-   *Note: The property named Config:DuplexUnit is now FALSE.*

14.  In the HP Photosmart 7520 window, select **Printing Preferences**.

-   *Note: In the HP Photosmart 7520 Printing Preferences window, note that the Print on Both Sides drop-down list box is gone.*

15.  Click **Cancel**, and then close all open windows.

16.  In the Ask me anything text box, type **PowerShell ISE**, and then press
    **Enter**.

17.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, on the tool bar, click the **open icon**,
    navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod03\\Services.ps1**, and then **read the
    script**.

- *Note the following:*
  - *Comments are green.*

  - *Variables are red.*

  - *Cmdlets are bright blue.*

  - *Text in quotation marks is dark red.*

18.  **Select line 3** in the script, and then **run the selection**. You can run
    the selection by **right-clicking the line** and selecting the **Run** selection
    option or by selecting the line and pressing **F8**.

19.  Run the script by clicking the **green arrow** on the ribbon, and then read
    the output. Notice that it does not have multiple colors.

20.  At the end of line 14, type **–ForegroundColor \$color.**

21.  Run the script by clicking the **green arrow** on the ribbon, and then read
    the output. Click **OK** in the Windows PowerShell ISE window if prompted to
    save the script.

>   Note: Running services are green and services that are not running are red.

22.  On line 16, type **Write-Host "A total of " \$services.count "services were
    evaluated."**

23.  **Run the script**. Click **OK** in the Windows PowerShell ISE window if
    prompted to save the script.

24.  In the Commands pane, build a Write-Host cmdlet on line 17 with the
    following options:

- -BackgroundColor Gray
- -ForegroundColor Black
- -Object “Script execution is complete”

25.  Run the script. Click OK in the Windows PowerShell ISE window if prompted to
    save the script.

26.  Save the script by pressing **Ctrl+S** on the keyboard.

27.  Open the **Windows PowerShell command prompt**.

28.  At the command prompt, type **Set-Location E:\\Labfiles\\Mod03**, and then
    press **Enter**.

29.  Type **.\\Services.ps1**, and then press **Enter**. Close all open windows.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully
>   configured the device with Windows PowerShell.
