# Lab: Managing Network Security  #

## Exercise 1: Creating and Testing Inbound Rules  ##

### Task 1: Test existing functionality ###

1.  Sign in to **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password
    **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Right-click **Start**, click **Run**, **type mstsc.exe**, and then press
    **Enter**.

3.  In the Computer box, **type LON-CL1**, and then press **Enter**.

4.  In Remote Desktop Connection, sign in to **LON-CL1** as
    **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**

5.  Open the **Start** menu on **LON-CL1**, click **Administrator**, and then
    click **Sign out**.

### Task 2: Create an inbound rule ###

1.  Sign in to LON-CL1 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password
    **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Click **Start**, and type **control**, then click **Control Panel** in the
    list.

3.  Click **System and Security**, and then click **Windows Defender Firewall**.

4.  In the left pane, click **Advanced settings**, click **Inbound Rules**, and
    then click **New Rule**.

5.  In the New Inbound Rule Wizard window, select **Predefined**, click the
    **drop-down list**, click **Remote Desktop**, and then click **Next**.

6.  On the Predefined Rules page, **check all available rules**, and then click
    **Next**.

7.  On the Action page, select **Block the connection**, and then click
    **Finish**.

8.  **Minimize** the Windows Firewall with Advanced Security window.

### Task 3: Test the rule ###

1.  **Switch to LON-CL2**.

2.  Click **Start**, type **mstsc.exe**, and then press **Enter**.

3.  In the Computer box, **type LON-CL1**, and then press **Enter**.

4.  In the Remote Desktop Connection window, click **OK**.

5.  Verify that the connection attempt fails.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have created and verified
>   inbound firewall rules.

## Exercise 2: Creating and Testing Outbound Rules  ##

### Task 1: Test existing functionality ###

1.  **Switch to LON-CL1**.

2.  Right-click **Start**, click **Run**, type **mstsc.exe**, and then press
    **Enter**.

3.  In the Computer box, type **LON-DC1**, and then press **Enter**.

4.  Sign in to LON-DC1 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password
    **Pa55w.rd**

5.  Open the Start screen on **LON-DC1**, click **Administrator**, and then
    click **Sign out**.

### Task 2: Create an outbound rule 

1.  On **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click the **Windows Firewall with Advanced
    Security** window, and then click **Outbound Rules**.

2.  In the Actions pane, click **New Rule**.

3.  On the Rule Type page, verify that you are creating a **Program rule**, and
    then click **Next**.

4.  On the Program page, browse and select **C:\\Windows\\System32\\mstsc.exe**,
    click **Open**, and then click **Next**.

5.  On the Action page, verify that the action is **Block the Connection**, and
    then click **Next**.

6.  On the Profile page, verify that **all profiles are checked**, and then
    click **Next**.

7.  On the Name page, type **Block Outbound RDP to LON-DC1** in the Name box,
    and then click **Finish**.

8.  In the Windows Firewall with Advanced Security window, click the **Block
    Outbound RDP to LON-DC1** rule, and then in the Actions pane, click
    **Properties**.

9.  Click the **Scope tab**, and then under the **Remote IP address heading**,
    select the **These IP addresses** option.

10. Under the Remote IP address heading, click **Add**, in the This IP address
    or subnet box, type **172.16.0.10**, and then click **OK**.

11. In the Block Outbound RDP to LON-DC1 Properties dialog box, click **OK**.

### Task 3: Test the rule ###

1.  Right-click Start, click Run, **type mstsc.exe**, and then press **Enter**.

2.  In the Computer box, **type LON-DC1**, and then press **Enter**.

3.  In the Remote Desktop Connection dialog box, click **OK**.

4.  **Close** all open windows.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have created and tested
>   outbound firewall rules.

## Exercise 3: Creating and Testing Connection Security Rules  ##

### Task 1: Verify that communications are not secure ###

1.  Sign in to **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator**.

2.  In the search box on the taskbar, type **PowerShell**, and then click
    **Windows PowerShell**.

3.  In the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type **ping LON-CL1**, and
    then press **Enter**.

4.  Verify that the ping generated four “Reply from 172.16.0.40: bytes=32
    time=*x*ms TTL=128” messages. Please note, the times that the message lists
    may vary from the example.

5.  Click **Start**, type **control** and click **Control Panel** in the list.

6.  Click **System and Security**, and then click **Windows Defender Firewall**.

7.  In the left pane, click **Advanced settings**.

8.  In the left pane, expand **Monitoring,** and then expand **Security
    Associations**.

9.  Click **Main Mode**, and then examine the information in the center pane. No
    information should be present.

10. Click **Quick Mode**, and then examine the information in the center pane.
    No information should be present.

11. **Switch to LON-CL1**.

12. In the search box on the taskbar, type **PowerShell**, and then click
    **Windows PowerShell**.

13. To examine the Main Mode Security Associations (SAs), at the Windows
    PowerShell prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

	 `  Get-NetIPsecMainModeSA`

14.  To examine the Quick Mode SAs, at the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the
    following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

 	`  Get-NetIPsecQuickModeSA`

15.  Running each command should produce no result.

### Task 2: Create the Connection Security Rule ### 

1.  Click **Start**, type **control** and click **Control Panel** in the list.

2.  Click **System and Security**, and then click **Windows Defender Firewall**.

3.  In the left pane, click **Advanced settings**, and then click **Connection
    Security Rules**.

4.  In the Actions pane, click **New Rule**.

5.  On the Rule Type page, verify that **Isolation is selected**, and then click
    **Next**.

6.  On the Requirements page, select **Require authentication for inbound
    connections and request authentication for outbound connections**, and then
    click **Next**.

7.  On the Authentication Method page, select **Computer and user (Kerberos
    V5)**, and then click **Next**.

8.  On the Profile page, click **Next**.

9.  On the Name page, in the Name text box, type **Authenticate all inbound
    connections**, and then click **Finish**.

10. **Close** the Windows Firewall with Advanced Security window.

11. **Switch to LON-CL2**.

12. On **LON-CL2,** right-click **Start**, and then click **Control Panel**.

13. Click **System and Security**, and then click **Windows Defender Firewall**.

14. In the left pane, click **Advanced settings**, and then click **Connection
    Security Rules**.

15. In the Actions pane, click **New Rule**.

16. On the Rule Type page, verify that **Isolation is selected**, and then click
    **Next**.

17. On the Requirements page, select **Require authentication for inbound
    connections and request authentication for outbound connections**, and then
    click Next.

18. On the Authentication Method page, select **Computer and user (Kerberos
    V5)**, and then click **Next**.

19. On the Profile page, click **Next**.

20. On the Name page, in the Name text box, type **Authenticate all inbound
    connections**, and then click **Finish**.

21. Close the **Windows Firewall with Advanced Security** window.

### Task 3: Verify the rule, and monitor the connection ###

1.  On **LON-CL2**, in the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type **ping
    LON-CL1**, and then press **Enter**.

2.  Verify that the ping generated four “Reply from 172.16.0.40: bytes=32
    time=*x*ms TTL=128” messages. Please note, the times that the message lists
    may vary from the example.

3.  Click **Start**, type **Windows Defender**, then click **Windows Defender
    Firewall**.

4.  In the left pane, click **Advanced settings**.

5.  In the left pane, expand **Monitoring**, and then expand **Security
    Associations**.

6.  Click **Main Mode**, and then examine the information in the center pane.

7.  Click **Quick Mode**, and then examine the information in the center pane.

8.  **Close** all open windows.

9.  **Switch to LON-CL1.**

10. To examine the Main Mode Security Associations (SAs), at the Windows
    PowerShell command prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

 	` Get-NetIPsecMainModeSA`

11.  Review the result.

12.  To examine the Quick Mode SAs, at the command prompt, type the following
    cmdlet, and then press Enter:

 	`  Get-NetIPsecQuickModeSA`

13.  Review the result.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have created and tested
>   connection security rules.

## Exercise 4: Configuring Windows Defender  ##

### Task 1: Perform a quick scan ###

1.  On **LON-CL1** click **Start**, and then select **Settings**.

2.  In the Settings app, open **Update & Security**, and then open the **Windows
    Defender tab**.

3.  Click **Open Windows Defender Security Center**.

4.  In Windows Defender Security Center, select **Virus & threat protection**.

5.  On the Virus & threat protection page, select **Quick scan**.

6.  **Close** Windows Defender Security Center .

### Task 2: Introduce suspicious software ###

1.  Open **File Explorer**, and then browse to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod10**.

2.  In the Mod10 folder, open **sample.txt** in Notepad. The sample.txt file
    contains a text string to test malware detection.

3.  In the sample.txt file, **delete both instances of \<remove\>,** including
    the brackets and any extra lines or blank spaces.

4.  **Save and close** the file. Immediately, Windows Defender detects a
    potential threat.

### Task 3: View the quarantined file ###

1.  In the notification area, click **Notifications**, and then in the Action
    Center, select the notification that states that **Windows Defender
    Antivirus found a threat**.

2.  Windows Defender Security Center opens on the Scan history page.

3.  Select the **down arrow** next to Virus:DOS/EICAR_Test_File, and then select
    **Remove**.

4.  Notice the sample.txt file is now gone from the Mod10 folder.

5.  **Close** all open windows.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have configured and tested
>   Windows Defender.
