# Lab: Monitoring Windows 10  #

## Exercise 1: Monitoring Events  ##

### Task 1: Configure Event Viewer to collect data from multiple devices ###

1.  On **LON-DC1**, sign in as **adatum\\Administrator** with the password:
    **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Right-click **Start**, and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

3.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

	 ` winrm quickconfig`


	*Note: This is just a check, as the remote management feature is probably
	enabled.*

4.  In **Server Manager**, click **Tools**, and then click **Active Directory
    Users and Computers**.

5.  In **Active Directory Users and Computers**, in the navigation pane, expand
    **Adatum.com**, and then click **Builtin**.

6.  In the results pane, double-click **Event Log Readers**.

7.  In the **Event Log Readers Properties** dialog box, click the **Members**
    tab.

8.  Click **Add**, and then in the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service
    Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**.

9.  In the **Object Types** dialog box, select the **Computers** check box, and
    then click **OK**.

10.  In the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups**
    dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select (examples)** box, type
    **LON-CL1**, and then click **OK**.

11.  In the **Event Log Readers Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.

12.  Switch to **LON-CL1**.

13. Right-click **Start**, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.

14. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

	 ` Wecutil qc`

15.  When prompted, type **Y**, and then press Enter.

### Task 2: View and filter events ### 

1.  On **LON-CL1**, right-click **Start**, and then click **Event Viewer**.

2.  In **Event Viewer**, in the navigation pane, click **Subscriptions**.

3.  Right-click **Subscriptions**, and then click **Create Subscription**.

4.  In the **Subscription Properties** dialog box, in the **Subscription name**
    box, type **LON-DC1 Events**.

5.  Click **Collector Initiated**, and then click **Select Computers**.

6.  In the **Computers** dialog box, click **Add Domain Computers**.

7.  In the **Select Computer** dialog box, in the **Enter the object name to
    select (examples)** box, type **LON-DC1**, and then click **OK**.

8.  In the **Computers** dialog box, click **OK**.

9.  In the **Subscription Properties – LON-DC1 Events** dialog box, click
    **Select Events**.

10. In the **Query Filter** dialog box, select the **Critical**, **Warning**,
    **Information**, **Verbose**, and **Error** check boxes.

11. In the **Logged** dropdown list, click **Last 30 days**.

12. In the **Event logs** dropdown list, select **Windows Logs**. Click in the
    **Query Filter** dialog box, and then click **OK**.

13. In the **Subscription Properties – LON-DC1 Events** dialog box, click
    **OK**.

14. In **Event Viewer**, in the navigation pane, expand **Windows Logs**.

15. Click **Forwarded Events**.

16. Right-click **Forwarded Events**, and then click **Create Custom View**.

17. In the **Create Custom View** dialog box, select the **Critical** and
    **Error** check boxes, and then click **OK**.

18. In the **Save Filter to Custom View** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type
    **LON-DC1 errors**, and then click **OK**.

19. Examine any listed events. The list may be empty.

20. Close all apps and open windows.

>   **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully
>   configured monitoring by using Event Viewer.

## Exercise 2: Monitoring Reliability and Performance  ##

### Task 1: Use Performance Monitor to gather a baseline ###

1.  On **LON-CL1**, click **Start**, type **administrative**, click **Windows
    Administrative Tools**, and then click **Performance Monitor**.

2.  In **Performance Monitor**, in the navigation pane, expand **Data Collector
    Sets**.

3.  Expand **User Defined**, right-click **User Defined**, point to **New**, and
    then click **Data Collector Set**.

4.  In the **Create new Data Collector Set Wizard**, on the **How would you like
    to create this new data collector set?** page, in the **Name** text box,
    type **Adatum Baseline**.

5.  Click **Create manually (Advanced)**, and then click **Next**.

6.  On the **What type of data do you want to include?** page, select the
    **Performance counter** check box, and then click **Next**.

7.  On the **Which performance counters would you like to log?** page, in the
    **Sample interval** field, type **1**, and then click **Add**.

8.  In the **Available counters** list, expand **Memory**, click **Pages/sec**,
    and then click **Add**.

9.  In the **Available counters** list, expand **Network Interface**, select
    **Packets/sec**, and then click **Add**.

10. In the **Available counters** list, expand **Physical Disk**, click **% Disk
    Time**, and then click **Add**.

11. Under **Physical Disk**, click **Avg. Disk Queue Length**, and then click
    **Add**.

12. In the **Available counters** list, expand **Processor**, click **%
    Processor Time**, and then click **Add**.

13. In the **Available counters** list, expand **System**, click **Processor
    Queue Length**, click **Add**, and then click **OK**.

14. On the **Which performance counters would you like to log?** page, click
    **Next**.

15. On the **Where would you like the data to be saved?** page, click **Next**.

16. On the **Create the data collector set** page, click **Finish**.

17. In **Performance Monitor**, in the navigation pane, right-click **Adatum
    Baseline**, and then click **Start**.

18. Click **Start**, and then click **Word 2016**.

19. Click **Start**, and then click **Excel 2016**.

20. Click **Start**, and then click **PowerPoint 2016**.

21. Close all open Microsoft Office 2016 apps, and then switch to **Performance
    Monitor**.

22. In the navigation pane, right-click **Adatum Baseline**, and then click
    **Stop**.

23. In **Performance Monitor**, in the navigation pane, expand **Reports**,
    expand **User Defined**, expand **Adatum Baseline**, and then click the
    report that has a name beginning with **LON-CL1**.

24. View the chart. On the menu bar, click the drop-down arrow, and then click
    **Report**.

25. Record the following values:

-   Memory Pages per second

-   Network Interface Packets per second

-   Physical Disk % Disk Time

-   Physical Disk Avg. Disk Queue Length

-   Processor % Processor Time

-   System Processor Queue Length

### Task 2: Load the suspect app ###

1.  On **LON-CL1**, if necessary, sign by in using the following credentials:

-	User name: **Adatum\\Administrator**
-	Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Run the **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod11\\Scenario.vbs** script.

3.  The script starts to generate the load.

### Task 3: Use Performance Monitor to identify possible bottlenecks ### 

1.  Switch to **Performance Monitor**.

2.  Under **Data Collector Sets**, click **User Defined**.

3.  Right-click **Adatum Baseline**, and then click **Start**.

4.  On the taskbar, in the **Type here to Search** type **perfmon /res**, and
    then press **Enter**.

5.  In **Resource Monitor**, which components are under strain?
	
	Answers will vary depending upon the usage scenario and host configuration,
	although central processing unit (CPU) and network are likely to be used
	heavily.

6.  After a few minutes, in the **Windows Script Host** prompt, click **OK**.
    Check the taskbar to see if this dialog may be hidden.

7.  Close the instance of **C:\\Windows\\System32\\cmd.exe** that the script
    launched.

8.  Switch to **Performance Monitor**.

9.  In the navigation pane, right-click **Adatum Baseline**, and then click
    **Stop**.

10. In **Performance Monitor**, in the navigation pane, expand **Reports**,
    expand **User Defined**, expand **Adatum Baseline**, and then click the
    **second report** that has a name beginning with **LON-CL1**.

10. View the chart.

11. On the menu bar, click the drop-down arrow, and then click **Report**.

12. Record the component details:

-   Memory Pages per second

-   Network Interface Packets per second

-   Physical Disk % Disk Time

-   Physical Disk Avg. Disk Queue Length

-   Processor % Processor Time

-   System Processor Queue Length

13. In your opinion, which components is the script affecting the most?

    The script is affecting the CPU and network, but it is also affecting all
    counters.

14.  Close all open windows and apps.

>    **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully
>    determined the cause of a performance bottleneck.
