# Lab A: Troubleshooting Desktop Apps  #

## Exercise 1: Troubleshooting AppLocker Policy Applications  ##

### Task 1: Review the help-desk Incident Record  ###

>**Scenario:**
>   Your manager has come to you indicating that there are reports of staff in
>   one department who are installing unauthorized programs. Your manager
>   indicates that the AppLocker policies in place should be preventing this.
>   You need to investigate why they are not working.

| Incident Reference Number: 723401                 |
|-----------------------------------|
| **Incident Reference Number**: 723401 <br> **Date of Call:** January 4 <BR> **User:** Alan Steiner (Marking Dept) <BR>**Status:** Open|
| **Incident Details**<br> Users are installing unauthorized applications in the Marketing department.  |
| **Additional Information**<br> Alan Steiner, one of the marketing managers, has reported that users are installing unauthorized desktop apps. <br>The AppLocker policies that are in place do not appear to be working.<br>You must determine why these policies are not being enforced. |
| **Plan of Action**                |
| **Resolution**                    |       

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Read the help-desk Incident Record for incident 723401.

2.  Discuss recommendations.

3.  Verify the problem.

4.  Attempt to resolve the problem.

### Task 2: Discuss recommendations  ###

1.  Read the Additional Information section of the incident record in the
    Student Handbook exercise scenario.

2.  Discuss your recommendations with other students:

    1.  Visit the user’s computer.

    2.  Sign in as a member of the Marketing group and verify the application of
        the AppLocker restriction policy.

    3.  If the policy is not applying, use the Group Policy Object (GPO)
        troubleshooting techniques to determine why.

    4.  Assuming that the GPO is applying, examine the settings for the
        AppLocker policy.

    5.  Check for AppLocker enforcement requirements:

        1.  Application identity is service running.

        2.  Default rules are being applied.

        3.  Enforcement is enabled in the AppLocker policy.
        
            - more
            
            - more
          
               - even more

### Task 3: Verify the problem 

1.  Switch to **LON-CL1**.

2.  Sign in by using the following credentials:

-   User name: **Adatum\\Benjamin**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

3.  On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

4.  In the File Explorer address bar, type
    **\\\\lon-dc1\\Apps\\XmlNotepad.msi**, and then press **Enter**.

5.  When installation starts, cancel it by clicking **Cancel,** then click
    **Yes,** then **Finish.**

>   Note: This step shows that the AppLocker policy is not being enforced.

### Task 4: Attempt to resolve the problem with an App Locker policy

1.  Switch to **LON-DC1.**

2.  **Sign in** to LON-DC1 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password of
    **Pa55w.rd**.

3.  On LON-DC1, in the Server Manager window, click **Tools**, and then click
    **Group Policy Management**.

4.  In the Group Policy Management window, expand **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand
    **Domains**, expand **Adatum.com**, expand **Group Policy Objects**, and
    then click **Marketing**.

5.  Right-click **Marketing**, and then click **Edit**.

6.  In the Group Policy Management Editor window, expand **Computer
    Configuration**, expand **Policies**, expand **Windows Settings**, expand
    **Security Settings**, expand **Application Control Policies**, expand
    **AppLocker**, and then click **Windows Installer Rules**.

7.  Right-click **Windows Installer Rules**, and then click **Create Default
    Rules**.

8.  Right-click **Windows Installer Rules**, and then click **Create New Rule**.

9.  On the Before You Begin page, click **Next**.

10. On the Permissions page, select **Deny**, and then click **Next**.

11. On the Conditions page, select **Path**, and then click **Next**.

12. On the Path page, click **Browse Files**.

13. In the File name text box, type **\\\\lon-dc1\\apps**, and then press
    **Enter**.

14. In the Open dialog box, double-click **XmlNotepad.msi**, and then click
    **Next**.

15. On the Exceptions page, click **Next**, and then click **Create**.

16. In the navigation pane, right-click **AppLocker**, and then click
    **Properties**.

17. In the AppLocker Properties dialog box, under Windows Installer rules,
    select the **Configured** check box, and then click **OK**.

18. In the navigation pane, click **System Services**, and then double-click
    **Application Identity**.

19. In the Application Identity Properties dialog box, select the **Define this
    policy setting** check box, click **Automatic**, and then click **OK**.

20. **Close** the Group Policy Management Editor window.

### Task 5: Apply the AppLocker policy

1.  In the Group Policy Management window, right-click the **Marketing OU**, and
    then click **Link an Existing GPO**. Select **Marketing**, and then click
    **OK**.

2.  **Close** Group Policy Management.

3.  In the Server Manager window, click **Tools**, and then click **Active
    Directory Users and Computers**.

4.  In Active Directory Users and Computers, expand **Adatum.com**, and then
    click **Computers**.

5.  Right-click **LON-CL1**, and then click **Move**.

6.  In the Move dialog box, click **Marketing**, and then click **OK**.

7.  Switch to **LON-CL1** and restart LON-CL1.

8.  **Sign in** to LON-CL1 as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password of
    **Pa55w.rd**.

9.  In LON-CL1, click **Start**, and type **cmd**, right-click on **Command
    Prompt**, and select **Run as Administrator**.

10. In the Command Prompt window, at the command prompt, type the following
    command, and then press **Enter**:

  ` gpupdate /force`

1.  **Sign out** of LON-CL1, then sign in by using the following credentials:

-   User name: **Adatum\\Benjamin**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

3.  In the File Explorer address bar, type
    **\\\\lon-dc1\\Apps\\XmlNotepad.msi**, and then press **Enter**.

4.  In the Windows Installer dialog box, click **OK**.

5.  Update the Resolution section of the incident record with the following
    comments:

- Enabled Default Windows Installerrules.
- Verified the installer path in the Deny rule.
- Turned on AppLocker enforcement.
- Configured policy to start the Application Identity service.
- Moved a computer, LON-CL1, to Marketing OU to test the policy.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully
>   resolved the AppLocker policy application problem.

## Exercise 2: Troubleshooting Application Compatibility Issues  ##

### Task 1: Identify compatibility issues 

1.  If necessary, sign in to **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Benjamin** with the
    password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

3.  Navigate to **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\StockViewer**, and then double-click
    **StockViewer**.

4.  In the Permission denied dialog box, click **OK**.

5.  On the Stock Viewer toolbar, click **Trends**.

6.  In the Error dialog box, click **OK**.

7.  On the Tools menu, click **Options**.

8.  In the Stock Viewer dialog box, click **Continue**.

9.  On the Tools menu, click **Show Me a Star**.

10. In the Unsupported Version dialog box, click **OK**.

11. **Close** Stock Viewer.

12. If a Program Compatibility Assistant window opens, click **This program ran
    correctly**.

13. In the File Explorer window, right-click **StockViewer**, and then click
    **Run as administrator**.

14. In the User Account Control dialog box, provide the following credentials,
    and then click Yes:

-   User name: **Adatum\\Administrator**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

15.  On the Stock Viewer toolbar, click **Trends**.

16.  On the Tools menu, click **Options**, and then click **OK**.

17.  On the Tools menu, click **Show Me a Star**, and then click **OK**.

18.  **Close** Stock Viewer, and then **sign out** of LON-CL1.

### Task 2: Create a compatibility fix 

1.  Sign in to **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password
    **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Click the Start button. In the list of apps, click **Windows Kits**, and
    then click **Compatibility Administrator (32bit)**.

3.  In the **Compatibility Administrator (32-bit) – New Database (1)
    [Untitled_1]** dialog box, right-click **New Database(1) [Untitled_1]**, and
    then click **Rename**.

4.  Type **AdatumACT**, and then press **Enter**.

5.  In the Compatibility Administrator window, right-click **AdatumACT
    [Untitled_1]\*,** click **Create New**, and then click **Application Fix**.

6.  In the Create New Application Fix Wizard, in the Name of the program to be
    fixed text box, type **StockViewer**.

7.  Click Browse.

8.  In the Find Binary window, browse to **C:\\Program Files
    (x86)\\StockViewer\\StockViewer.exe**, and then click **Open**.

9.  In the Create new Application Fix window, click **Next**.

10. On the Compatibility Modes page, select the **Run this program in
    compatibility mode** for check box, click the **drop-down list**, and then
    click **Windows XP**.

11. In the Additional compatibility modes section, scroll down, select the
    **RunAsAdmin** check box, and then click **Next**.

12. On the Compatibility Fixes page, click **Next**.

13. On the Matching Information page, click **Finish**.

14. In the Compatibility Administrator window, click **Save**.

15. In the Save Database window, browse to **c:\\**.

16. In the File name text box, type **AdatumACT**, and then click **Save**.

17. Close the Compatibility Administrator window.

18. **Sign out** of LON-CL1.

### Task 3: Test the compatibility fix 

1.  Sign in to **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Benjamin** with the password
    **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Click **Start**, and type **cmd**, right-click on **Command Prompt**, and
    select **Run as Administrator**.

3.  In the User Account Control dialog box, enter the following credentials, and
    then click **Yes**:

	- User name: **Adatum\\administrator**

	- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

	` Sdbinst C:\\AdatumACT.sdb`

5.  On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

6.  In File Explorer, navigate to **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\StockViewer** and
    then double-click **StockViewer**.

7.  In the User Account Control dialog box, enter the following credentials, and
    then click **Yes**:

	- User name: **Adatum\\administrator**

	- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

8.  On the Stock Viewer toolbar, click **Trends**.

9.  On the Tools menu, click **Options**.

10.  Click **OK** to close the message box.

11.  On the Tools menu, click **Show Me a Star**, and then click the star.

12.  **Close** the Stock Viewer application.

13.  If the Program Compatibility Assistant window opens, click **Yes**, this
    program worked correctly.

14.  **Sign out** of LON-CL1.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully
>   resolved the issues with the Stock Viewer application.



# Lab B: Troubleshooting Access to Company Web Applications  #

## Exercise 1: Troubleshooting Microsoft Internet Explorer Issues  ##


### Task 1: Verify the issue 

1.  In **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Harry** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Click the Start button, and in the list of apps, click **Windows
    Accessories**, and then click **Internet Explorer.**

3.  In the Internet Explorer 11 window, click **Use recommended security and
    compatibility settings**, and then click **OK**.

4.  In the Internet Explorer Address bar, type **http://intranet.adatum.com**,
    and then press **Enter**.

5.  Verify that the website displays correctly. If you press the **ALT** key,
    click the **Tools menu**, and then verify that the Enterprise Mode menu item
    is not visible.

6.  **Sign out** of LON-CL1.

### Task 2: Create a policy for Internet Explorer Enterprise Mode

1.  Switch to **LON-DC1**.

2.  On LON-DC1, on the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

3.  In File Explorer, click **E:\\**, and then click **Labfiles**.

4.  Double-click the **EMIESiteListManager.msi** file.

5.  In the Enterprise Mode Site List Manager Setup window, click **Next**.

6.  On the End-User License Agreement page, select the check box for **I accept
    the terms in the License Agreement**, and then click **Next**.

7.  On the Destination Folder page, click **Next**.

8.  On the Ready to install Enterprise Mode Site List Manager page, click
    **Install**.

9.  On the Completed the Enterprise Mode Site List Manager Setup Wizard page,
    click **Finish**.

10. Click the **Start** button, type **Enterprise**, and then click **Enterprise
    Mode Site List Manager**.

11. In the Enterprise Mode Site List Manager for Windows 10 window, click
    **Add**.

12. In the Add new website window, in the URL text box, type
    **intranet.adatum.com**. In the Compat Mode drop-down list box, click **IE9
    Document Mode**, and then click **Save**.

13. If a dialog box opens, click **Yes**.

14. Click the **File menu**, and then click **Save to XML**.

15. In the Save as… dialog box, navigate to **c:\\inetpub\\wwwroot**. In the
    File name text box, type **AdatumEnterpriseMode**, and then click **Save**.

16. **Close** Enterprise Mode Site List Manager.

17. Click the **Start** button, and then click **Internet Explorer**.

18. In the Internet Explorer window, in the Address bar, type  
    **http://lon-dc1.adatum.com/AdatumEnterpriseMode.xml**, and then press
    **Enter**.

19. Verify that the XML file opens correctly.

20. **Close** Internet Explorer.

### Task 3: Enable Internet Explorer Enterprise Mode  

1. Switch to the **Server Manager** window, click **Tools**, and then click
    **Group Policy Management**.

2. If necessary, in the Group Policy Management window, expand **Forest:
    Adatum.com**, expand **Domains**, expand **Adatum.com**, expand **Group
    Policy Objects**.

3. Right-click **Group Policy Objects**, and then click **New**. Name the new
    policy **Internet Explorer Enterprise Mode Policy**. Click **OK**.

4. Right-click **Internet Explorer Enterprise Mode Policy**, and then click
    **Edit**.

5. In the Group Policy Management Editor window, in the left pane, expand
    **Computer Configuration**, expand **Policies**, expand **Administrative
    Templates**, expand **Windows Components**, and then click **Internet
    Explorer**.

6. Notice that the **Let users turn on and use Enterprise Mode from the Tools
    menu** setting is not configured.

7. Leave the Group Policy Management Editor window open.

8. Switch to the **File Explorer** window.

9. In the File Explorer window, in the address bar, type **C:\\Windows**, and
    then press **Enter**.

10. In the content pane, right-click **PolicyDefinitions**, and then click
    **Copy**.

11. In the address bar, type **\\\\LON-DC1\\SYSVOL\\Adatum.com\\Policies**, and
    then press **Enter**.

12. In the content pane, right-click **any empty space**, and then click
    **Paste**.

13. Switch to **LON-CL1**.

14. Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

15. Click **Start**, and type **cmd**, and press **Enter**.

16. In the Command Prompt window, type the following two commands, press
    **Enter** after each command, and press **Y** and **Enter** when asked to
    overwrite the files:
    
``` 
Copy c:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\inetres.admx \\LON-DC1\SYSVOL\Adatum.com\Policies\PolicyDefinitions\inetres.admx
```

```
Copy c:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\en-US\inetres.adml \\LON-DC1\SYSVOL\Adatum.com\Policies\PolicyDefinitions\en-US\inetres.adml
```

17.  **Sign out** of LON-CL1.

18.  Switch to **LON-DC1**.

19.  On LON-DC1, switch to Group Policy Management Editor window. You should
    still see the available Internet Explorer policy settings in the content
    pane.

20.  In the content pane, double-click **Let users turn on and use Enterprise
    Mode from the Tools menu**.

21.  Click **Enabled**, and then click **OK**.

22.  In the content pane, double-click **Use the Enterprise Mode IE website
    list**.

23.  Click **Enabled**, in the Type the location (URL) of your Enterprise Mode IE
    website list text box, type
    **http://lon-dc1.adatum.com/AdatumEnterprisemode.xml**, and then click
    **OK**.

24.  **Close** the Group Policy Management Editor window.

25.  In the Group Policy Management window, right-click the **Adatum.com
    domain**, and then click **Link an existing GPO**.

26. In the Select GPO window, click **Internet Explorer Enterprise Mode
    Policy**, and click **OK**.

### Task 4: Verify that the issue is resolved 

1.  In LON-CL1, sign in as **Adatum\\Harry** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Click the **Start** button, type **gpupdate**, and then press **Enter,** and
    wait for the policy update to complete.

3.  Click the **Start** button, and in the list of apps, click **Windows
    Accessories**, click **Internet Explorer**, and then wait two minutes.

4.  In the Internet Explorer window, press the **ALT** key, click the **Tools**
    menu, and then click **Enterprise Mode**.

5.  In the Internet Explorer Address bar, type **http://intranet.adatum.com**,
    and then press **Enter**.

6.  Verify that the website displays correctly, and if you press the **ALT**
    key, click the **Tools** menu, and then verify that Enterprise Mode is
    greyed out because the site runs in Enterprise Mode.

7.  **Sign out** of LON-CL1.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully resolved
>   the Internet Explorer 11 issue by configuring Enterprise Mode.

## Exercise 2: Troubleshooting Microsoft Edge Issues  ##

### Task 1: Review the help-desk Incident Record ###

>**Scenario:**
>   Your company is has recently migrated users to Windows 10. You are in a sub-group of the Help Desk
>   that is responsible for handling support calls related to post-deployment issues. A ticket has been opened 
>   regarding a user's browser favorties are now missing after migration. 


1. Read the following help-desk Incident Record.

| Incident Reference Number: 723415                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Date of Call:** January 8<BR>**Time of Call:** 08:50 <BR>**User:** Finlay Butcher (Research Department) <BR>**Status:** OPEN                                        |                                                                                     |
| **Incident Details:** <BR> User cannot find the Favorites tab that he used in Internet Explorer when he uses Microsoft Edge.                                |
| **Additional Information:** <BR> Finlay wants the same Favorites tab in Microsoft Edge that he has in Internet Explorer, but it is not present in Microsoft Edge. |
| **Plan of Action**                                                                                                                                         |
| **Resolution**                                                                                                                                              |

### Task 2: Discuss recommendations 

1.  Read the Additional Information section of the incident record in the
    Student Handbook exercise scenario.

2.  Discuss your recommendations with other students:

    1.  Visit the user’s computer and view the problem.

    2.  Review the Microsoft Edge configuration options.

    3.  Enable the Home button.

    4.  Import favorites from Internet Explorer.

### Task 3: Attempt to resolve the problem 

1.  Switch to **LON-CL1**.

2.  Sign in as **Adatum\\Finlay** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3.  On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

4.  Click on the **Hub** (three horizontal lines). Notice that there are no
    favorites.

5.  Click **Import favorites**, and then click **Import**.

6.  **Close** the hub, and then **reopen the hub**.

7.  Notice that the favorites from Internet Explorer now display in Microsoft
    Edge.

8.  Update the Resolution section of the Incident Record with the following
    text:

    - Turned on home button in advanced settings.

    - Clicked Import favorites in the hub to import Internet Explorer
        favorites.

>   Results: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully
>   resolved the Microsoft Edge issue.
